List of resources in this repo:
- **dico_hypernym_types_incomplete.json** was created with the *SPARQL query for finding all the possible values for gold:hypernym on dbpedia* cell of the notebook. The dico contains all hypernyms found on DBpedia, along with a count of time they were found. It’s incomplete because the code crashed before the end, but I could dump what I had at that point (8.4K hypernyms out of 100). This dico is used to then get lists of entities for each hypernym.
- **GREC_NE.json** contains NEs extracted from the GREC dataset for 2 categories “People” and “Cities”.
- **dico_input_contents_DBp.pickle** was created using the *Get DBpedia properties online for an entity list* cell of the notebook, and contains DBpedia triples retrieved for all GREC entities (as in GREC_NE.json).
- **dico_category_tripleConfigs.json** was created using the WebNLG data notebook (not public yet). It contains for each category, a dico of Original (as opposed to Modified) WebNLG property label sets that are found in the train set, along with a count of how many time each property set was seen in the data.
- **dico_entities_for_triple_configuration.json** was created using the *Check which entities have property (sub)sets that match WebNLG inputs* cell of the notebook. It takes as input *dico_category_tripleConfigs.json* and *dico_input_contents_DBp.pickle* (see above). It contains, for each category, a dico where keys are property configurations as a string and the values are the entities for which the property configuration is a subset of the properties for that entity (e.g., for the property configuration birthPlace##spouse##successor, there are 29 entities for which there is at least one instance of each of those properties in dico_input_contents_DBp.pickle.
- the XMLs folder contains the output XML files produced using one of the *Save triple sets in XML format* cells, and the files described above.
- **list_props_that_can_happen_once_only.json** contains all DBpedia properties that can happen only once for the same subject; it was compiled manually for the INLG 2025 "Scaling..." paper.
- **list_props_to_filter.json** contains a list of properties that we do not want to use in our experiments, either because they correspond to metadata or because they have Object values that cannot be used in generation (e.g. a hyperlink); it was compiled manually for the INLG 2025 "Scaling..." paper.
